{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-Black;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f5\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red57\green57\blue57;\red240\green240\blue240;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red249\green249\blue249;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c29020\c29020\c29020;\cssrgb\c95294\c95294\c95294;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c98039\c98039\c98039;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww25400\viewh16000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs48 \cf0 Analysis of MTA Turnstyle Data -\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
     The analysis is about MTA (
\f3 \cf3 \cb4 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority
\f2 \cf2 \cb1 ) of the New York City at mostly all the stations. The analysis was done to know the effects of covid on the public train transport in New York for a non-profit company called 
\f4\b Transit Center
\f2\b0 , \cb5 which works for the betterment of public transport and provides cheap transport for the people with low incomes. The data is taken from the MTA's website and being analyzed for the effects of covid on train traffic. When covid hit the New York city, the trains were reduced by 40% as people were not using them as heavily as pre-covid and also due to low number of train staff. I would be observing the traffic in low income communities and stations which are near to hospitals in the New York city, and the observations will help the organization to urge the government to increase trains in these areas which in-turn will help the population with low incomes.\cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Analysis of the three months March, April and May 2020:\
\
    
\f4  
\f2\b0\fs36 I have transferred the data from the MTA website to my system and used sqlite engine to access the database. The observations were done for the months of March, April, and May for the year 2020. This was the time when New York was under lockdown for the months of March and April, but the public transport was still running. The covid cases were also at it\'92s peak at this time. Since it was a lockdown for this period, the travelers should be the ones who would use transport only for emergency situations, and not for entertainment, jobs or shopping. The data was observed for the number of entries of the turnstyle for the foot traffic at various stations in New York.\
\
      As we can see in the line plot that the peak was in March, this signifies that most travel was done when covid was at it\'92s highest for treatment of their family members.\
The traffic at various stations was calculated per day for each month separately. We can see that the most traffic for the month of March was at 
\f4\b 34 ST-HERALD SQ
\f2\b0  which is near to the hospital, 
\f5\fs32 \cf6 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mount Sinai Beth\'a0Israel which is a 7-minute walk from the station.\
\
      Also, the traffic at different low community boroughs was like Queens, Bronx and Brooklyn was observed, along with the traffic at Manhattan which is a high income area. The highest traffic at Manhattan was 34-St Penn Station which is again near to Mount Sinai Beth and NYU hospitals. This observation was the sum of daily entries for the three months together.\
\
     \cb1 \

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Analysis of the six months July -Dec 2020:\

\f2\b0\fs36 \
        As we can see in the line plot that the traffic at various stations was high in the holiday periods i.e November and December. We can see the traffic for each month for all the six months at various stations. The highest traffic for the month of September was at 
\f4\b Flushing-Main
\f2\b0  which is under Queens Borough (Hardest hit by Covid). Again the bar plot for all the six months shows the highest traffic at 
\f4\b 34-Penn street
\f2\b0 , and the reason for travel can be for shopping or hospital visits.\
     }